In this video, we're going to watch a
clip of a movie called This Is 40. And
we're going to look at all the common
patterns inside of a fight.
>> It hurts me inside and triggers me when
you're such a dishonest [__]
>> And what you can do about it, and how
when a marriage falls apart, what's
behind that and how to fix it. Okay,
let's get started.
>> How's the record company going, Pete?
>> What? Not great. I'm still waiting for
numbers to come in.
Okay. So, we're going to just pause
right there right off the bat.
>> How's the record company going, Pete?
>> She wants the fight.
>> What?
>> So, if she wants the fight, it means
that she is not holding a boundary.
She's angry because she's not holding a
boundary. You can see right at the
beginning, his jaw is tight, which means
he's angry and he's not holding a
boundary. So, that's definitely going to
come in the scene at some point during
the fight, people start yelling their
boundaries instead of actually holding
their boundaries. So, you know that
that's all going to happen. And you can
tell immediately, like in a lot of
relationships, one person is the
agitator and one person is the avoider.
One's not better or worse. We often
think the agitator is the bad guy.
They're like hysterical or yelling or
something like that. And the other
person's the calm person, but they're in
a dynamic together. One avoiding the
scenario because they're walking on
eggshells. And then there's the other
one who's like, "Hey, we have to talk
about this." But they do it in such a
way that of course it pushes the other
person away and they don't want to deal
with it. So all all that is set up
immediately and that similar setup is in
a ton of fights. So this is great. Okay,
here we go. Let's see what happens.
>> What have you heard?
>> A couple numbers have trickled in. It's
lower than we expected.
>> You can see it all in the body language.
He's moving backwards.
>> Why are you giving Larry money?
>> What?
>> I know everything. I talked to the
accountant.
>> All right. You know what? I don't want
to get into some nasty fight. So, can we
please talk to each other the way the
therapist told us to talk to each other?
>> Fine. Fine. [laughter]
>> It makes me feel sad when you are
dishonest.
>> I understand it makes you feel bad when
I am dishonest with you. It hurts my
feelings when you treat me with
contempt.
>> I've been here. I have been here. and
corner me and try and trick me into
lying.
>> Okay. It makes me sad when it's so easy
to trick you into lying because you're
such a lying
>> we're going to stop a [__] bag.
[laughter] So So typically
this actually is more common than
anything else that I've ever seen. So
typically when somebody learns a
communication technique, what they're
learning is how to say something, but
they're not learning where to come from
when they say it. This is actually why
we created the connection course because
what we saw was that all of the
communication techniques that are taught
as soon as the mind goes then the
communication technique just becomes
weaponized which is what you're seeing
happening here. And I think the
communication technique that they're
trying to use there is nonviolent
communication and I have been exactly in
this place in a fight with my wife
before. So I can feel for these two.
>> That's not You can't do that. You can't
do that. The therapist said you're not
allowed to judge me.
>> That's not a judgment. That's just a
fact.
That's a fact.
>> Fair enough. Sometimes I withhold truth
that is true.
>> Okay. Here in the scene, it's amazing.
And this happens a lot in fights two.
If you actually say something that's
true that hasn't been said, there's some
relief that gets created. And here you
just see like a little bit relief. She
just called him a [__] and he doesn't
react as badly. He actually steps up,
steps up and gets engaged. Now, not
everybody's going to do this, but you'll
see that actually happen when the truth
is spoken. Because most of the fights
that are happening is I've been holding
back my truth, you've been holding back
your truth, and so we haven't said the
things that are important to us, and now
we're really pissed off. And so, they
come at each other like lightning
instead of actually having those
conversations earlier on. Again,
boundaries have been crossed, truths
haven't been said, and that's really
where the fight starts kicking into
gear. So, let's see what he says about
being a line shipbag. I think it is.
Let's see.
>> But it's only because I'm scared to
death of your crazy ass, illogical
overreactions.
>> Well,
it hurts me inside and triggers me when
you're such a dishonest [__] that you're
lending your father money without
telling me while your record company's
going bankrupt and we're on the verge OF
LOSING OUR [__] HOUSE. [screaming]
>> OKAY.
First of all, crazy cut to the girl.
That one breaks my heart, which is what
a beautiful piece of scenery that is.
What's happening here is that there's
two people who are in shame. They're
they haven't said their truth because
they're ashamed of their needs and their
wants. They haven't drawn their
boundaries because they're ashamed. And
now they're just passing that shame back
and forth. I call this the shame ball or
the shame hot potato. You're bad for
being crazy. You're bad for lending
money. you're bad for losing the house.
You're bad for and they're just going
back and forth doing this. And so each
of them to some degree when they're in a
fight like this feel like they're
defending themselves. Like, oh, I'm
defending myself. I'm telling you that
I'm not being honest with you because
you go a little crazy, but for you
that's an attack. And I'm telling you,
I'm going a little crazy because you're
lying, but for you that's an attack. And
so each of their defenses builds into a
deeper and deeper attack which is just
having them lose each other and lose a
relationship and poignantly showing that
it's also losing their kid.
[music]
>> That's just heartbreaking.
>> What else are you lying about?
I've taken Viagra for 2 years. I ate six
muffins downstairs a while ago, and my
cholesterol level is 305. My heart could
explode at any second. These might be my
very last words. Oh, and I gave
Charlotte antibiotics when you weren't
looking. That's why her ear got better.
So, go [__] your witch doctor.
[laughter]
>> What are we even doing? What are we
doing?
>> Oh my goodness. Uh, yeah. So,
here it is. Finally, we're in a fight.
So, now I can actually speak my truth,
which is why a lot of people actually
get in their fights. For months, he has
not been telling her what he really
needs to take care of his kid. Most of
his hiding, which is very typical. Most
of his hiding is to stop her from having
a reaction. He's trying to control her
by hiding. It makes her feel more
disconnected, makes her feel like she's
pulling away, that he's pulling away
even more, and then she gets more and
more angry. And that's typical. The more
the person avoids, the more the other
person feels abandoned and then they get
angrier to try to get that engagement.
On the other side, the more angry she
gets, the more he avoids and the more he
feels disconnected. And so the more he
runs away to feel that sense of safety
and then the more they're disconnected.
And this is what's going back and forth.
And so what really is required is for
both of them to feel seen. That there is
a place for them to feel seen. that
there's a place where they can hang out,
be themselves, and nobody's going to
judge or yell at them or freak out. And
they've taken that away from each other.
So, of course, the love is just like
drained out of a marriage like this. If
it's been happening like this for years,
it it just there's no way that the love
lasts.
>> This is not making me happy. You're not
happy. You don't like me. I can feel
that. I'm not blind.
Jesus,
we're like business associates.
>> So, once again, she's speaking a truth
and like the the energy of the fight
comes down. And this happens a lot in a
fight, which is I mean, brilliant that
they actually capture this on screen. I
think that's very rare. When the truth
is spoken and you're not trying to
manage the other person, you're not
defending yourself. You're just like,
"Fuck, this sucks. I can see what's
happening here. This sucks." Then the
fight can start coming down because
people feel seen when the truth is
spoken. Especially if it's spoken
without an attack, which is what's
happening right here.
>> We're like brother and sister. There's
no passion there.
>> We're not like brother and sister, you
know? We're like we're like Simon and
Garuncle. And somehow you turned me into
Garfuncle.
>> I don't even know what that means.
>> Art Garfuncle.
>> What's wrong with Art Garuncle? He has a
beautiful voice.
>> He's got an AMAZING VOICE. HE COULD PUT
A HARMONY TO ANYTHING. BUT WHAT I'M
SAYING is that you turn me into him.
What the hell are you talking about?
What?
>> Simon controls him.
>> That's because Simon writes the [__]
songs. He's the better one.
>> You know what? I see the way you look at
our kids. You have so much love and
compassion for them. You never look at
me like that.
>> Okay.
>> Ever. So, he feels controlled. He feels
controlled because he's not speaking his
truth. He's not speaking his truth
because he's scared of her emotions.
He's not actually controlled. He's just
scared of her emotions, but because he
feels like he has to do a certain thing
to keep her emotions in check, then he
feels controlled. But what's actually
happening is he's just scared of her
emotions. And then she feels like she's
better than him. Simon's the better one.
And that's so typical in a relationship
that one or both people think that
they're better. And all that better is
doing is protecting them from having
their heart broken. So she's saying,
"I'm better than you." But what she's
really saying in that moment is I am
crushed over the fact that the love has
drained out of our marriage, that you
don't love me anymore, that you don't
see me, and you don't even want to be
with me. So instead of feeling all that,
I'm just going to feel like I'm better
than you.
>> Would we even still be together if I
didn't get pregnant 14 years ago?
>> You know what? I'm not going to go down
that road. That
>> would we
Okay.
So, in that moment, she asks him a real
question and he avoids again. And she's
like, "Wh you're pulling away again.
There's nothing I can do." Instead of
him actually engaging in that moment,
which is the real way to turn that fight
into a great relationship, is to say,
"I'm scared that that's not the case,
and I don't know what to do, and I want
to be able to fix it, but I have no idea
how to fix it." and there's a part of me
that doesn't want to fix it because I'm
scared that you're gonna be yelling at
me my whole life. Instead of having that
like full and real conversation, not one
part of it, but the whole thing, which
is where the marriage can actually start
to change when the truth is spoken, he
avoids again and she's just like, I'm
out of here. And so, she walks away.
Of course, he doesn't want her to
completely go away. And she doesn't
completely want to go away. So, let's
see what happens.
>> You know what? I don't want to have a
party here. You need to cancel it.
>> No, I'm not.
>> Okay, hold on a second. You need to
cancel it. So, she's trying to control
him. She's threatening. She's like, "Oh,
I'm not going to get what I want, so I'm
going to go [__] you." So, she just
needles him to get that engagement
again, which is what happens in a fight.
And he I already paid for the catering.
I've put down deposits, and I sure as
[__] I'm not going to call everybody
back in two days when you change your
mind.
>> [laughter]
>> And he draws a boundary, which actually
is probably a good start for healing
that marriage if they actually could
have the conversation.
[music]